your.
>> On CNN newsroom. Hi,
everyone. I am Jessica Dean in
New York and we begin with
breaking news out of the middle
East as Israel welcomes home
four hostages rescued this
morning from gaza during a
special military operation all
for kidnapped by hamas from the
nova music festival during the
a6 October 7 attacks, eight
months so go and they include
22-year-old almog meir, John,
25-year-old Noa argamani, 20.
Andre kozlov, 41-year-old,
shlomi Ziv andrii in shlomi
were working as security guards
at the music festival and you
may remember Noa argamani from
this horrific video from the
October 7 attacks we also heard
screaming as hamas fighters
drove away with her on a
motorbike we know her boyfriend
was also kidnapped and it's
still being held captive.
Israel says this morning's
rescue mission took place it to
separate locations in central
gaza and your refugee camp
Palestinians, they're described
the raid as hell on Earth is
heavy shelling and artillery
fire bombarded that area.
>> Officials in gaza say at
least 210 people have been
killed more than 400 injured,
including women in children.
>> But CNN cannot independently
verify those numbers. We are
covering these breaking
developments from all angles.
Been wheat a man has more on
the casualties inside gaza, but
first we start with Paula
hancocks and tel aviv, who has
more details on the surprise
rescue mission that brought
these four hostages home.
Apala, how are these hostages
doing well, Jessica, what we've
been told from the doctor at
the medical center, they were
all taken two once they were
rescued, is that they are all
stable.
>> They are in good medical
condition than just outside
that hospital. We have seen all
day friends and family coming
to welcome home. There loved
ones that have been in
captivity for the past eight
months. Now, many of them have
thanked the military for the
mission they have thank those
that a part of this rescue
operation, but they have also
said that there are 120 more
hostages that needs to be
rescued. Now, we did hear from
the mother of one of the
hostages and almog, meir, Jan
and let's listen to what she
said thank you.
>> So bringing my son to me to
ask I'm so excited hugging
today.
>> I couldn't stop hugging
him. I couldn't stop and
tomorrow is my birthday. I got
my presence now, she also said
that they want a ceasefire deal
to make sure the rest of the
hostages can be released.
>> It's something we've heard
here tonight in tel aviv where
the week plea protest that has
been held, we heard from the
one of the women speaking her
cousinone of those who has
died in captivity. The body
still being held by hamas,
saying, not everything will
have a holiday he would ending.
So there's a real push at the
same time as celebrating the
rescue of these four hostages.
A push for a ceasefire and
hostage deal. Jessica and Paul,
what more are you learning
about the rescue? Mission
itself? This was high-stake
stuff. How did it come together
what we're hearing from the
idf Sayyed is that the
military, the acuity agency,
the police, had a joint
operation.
>> They had been planning this
for weeks. They say it was
based on intelligence and it
was just on Thursday night the
Israeli prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu gave the green light
to go ahead with this mission.
They said they effectively
built to apartment blocks. They
knew that these civilians
excuse me, hostages were being
held in civilian multi-story
buildings and they built block
so that they could train in how
to try and extract them from
that area. Now they have
pointed out it wasn't a
civilian area and that many of
the other hostages would not be
held in a similar situation
they don't believe that this
could be necessarily replicated
after this Jessica, I Apollo
handcuffs for us.
>> Live in tel aviv. Thank you
very much. Let's turn now to
the impact in gaza. Were
Palestinians are describing
that special operation as hell
on Earth. And I do want to warn
you some of the video we're
about to show you is graphing
locals, telling CNN this about
the aftermath of the attack,
quote, there are children torn
apart and scattered in the
streets. We turn now to been
Wiedemann for more on the
impact inside gaza and Ben
hamas officials say they are
more than 200 people dead,
hundreds more injured. We were
just looking at some of that
video. What more do we know
this is without a doubt, one of
the bloodiest is rarely
assaults in this war.
>> So far no doctors at the
aqsa martyrs hospital indebted
Bella say that the death toll
at the moment stands at least
at 400 Jordan ten, with more
than 400 injured, no CNN has a
camera man who got into that
hospital and the scenes are
utter pen ammonium. Women,
children, wounded, dead all
over this hospital. The morgue
is full. The debtor on the
ground side. There are many
relatives there trying to get
treatment for their wounded
loved ones. Others are weeping
and brain over the dead. Now,
this assault took place
mid-morning just before noon,
actually. And at a time when
many people are out and about,
there's the market in the
nuseirat camp where this
happened. Lots of people were
in the street. And what we've
seen video coming out of that
place is that he Israelis used
a lot of heavy firepower in
that area where there were many
civilians walking around so
certain this is a success for
the Israelis, but for the
Palestinians, it comes at a
very high price and it's worth
mentioning that the Israelis
and military operations going
back to October have managed at
this point to free seven
hostages. However, 105 hostile
judges were released during a
ceasefire back in late
November, in which at one
Israeli hostages were freed as
well as 20 for foreign
nationals. It's clear that
after eight months of war in a
death toll of over 36,000 in
gaza. That the best way to get
people out, the hostages free
is not through dramatic
military action, but it's
through ceasefire Jessica and
then secretary St. Anthony
blinken is traveling to the
Middle East to push for a
ceasefire deal between Israel
and hamas what is the word at
this point on how this
potential, how this rescue
mission may potentially impact
those discussions well, we've
seen a statement from spokesman
for hamas indicating that this
might make things more
difficult, but they're already,
it seems that even though
president Biden came out onto
30 of may, come meet with a
three-point proposal to try to
end this one for both sides
have been ambiguous.
>> The Israelis have indicated
sort of a willingness to go
along with it. But prime
minister Netanyahu has made it
clear that his the ultimate
goal is the destruction of
hamas. Hamas wants Israel to
agree to a complete and
permanent ceasefire, so they
still seem to be well, a apart.
The gap is wide between the two
sides. Now, we know that
William burns, the head of the
CIA was in Qatar, and Brett
Mcgurk, the mideast coordinator
for the white house, was in
Cairo. So the efforts are being
made, but they don't seem to be